# Flask API for language learning app

This Flask API leverages the GradientAI service with the Llama model to generate chat bot like responses

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.x installed on your system.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository.
2. Navigate to the directory.
3. Setup a virtual environment and install dependencies:

### MacOS and Linux

    ```bash
    python3 -m venv myenv
    source myenv/bin/activate
    pip install -r pip_install_commands.txt
    ```

### Windows

    ```bash
    python3 -m venv myenv
    myenv\Scripts\activate
    pip install -r pip_install_commands.txt
    ```

## Running the API

Execute the `main.py` script:

```bash
python main.py
```

The server will start on the default port 5000.

## API Endpoints

The API has eight primary routes:

### Home Route: /

This route returns a welcome message and confirms that the API is operational.

- example: `GET /`

### Quiz Generation: /getQuiz

The server can generate quizzes containing multiple-choice questions and answers based on the topic and language provided by the user.

- Example: `GET /getQuiz?topic=Environment&language=English`
  
### AI Chat: /chat

Users can engage in conversations with the server through the API and receive intelligent responses generated by Llama2, helping them practice language skills in a natural and interactive way.

- Example:
```
POST /chat
Content-Type: application/json

{
"userMessage": "Hello",
"chatHistory": [
{
"User": "Hello",
"Llama": "Hi, nice to meet you. I'm a language learning assistant. How can I help you?"
}
],
"language": "English"
}
```

### Vocabulary Generator: /generateVocabulary

The server can generate lists of vocabulary words related to a specific topic and language, helping users expand their language knowledge.

- Example: `GET /generateVocabulary?topic=Environment&language=English`


### Reading Comprehension Exercises: /generateReadingComprehension

The server can generate reading comprehension passages, questions, and answer options for users to practice their reading and comprehension abilities.

- Example: `GET /generateReadingComprehension?topic=Environment&language=English`


### Writing Exercises: /getWritingExercise /evaluateWriting

The server can provide writing prompts and tasks based on the user's chosen topic and language, and evaluate the user's writing, providing feedback.

- Example: `GET /getWritingExercise?topic=Environment&language=English`

- `POST /evaluateWriting`: Evaluate the user's writing and provide feedback.
  - Example:
    ```
    POST /evaluateWriting
    Content-Type: application/json

    {
      "writing": "This is an article about art...",
      "task": "Please write a paper about the influence of art on society"
    }
    ```

### Translation Assistance: /translate

The server offers translation functionality, allowing users to translate text from one language to another.

- `POST /translate`: Translate the given text into the target language.
  - Example:
    ```
    POST /translate
    Content-Type: application/json

    {
      "text": "Hello, how are you?",
      "source_language": "en",
      "target_language": "de"
    }
    ```
